Most materials in medicines come from bacteria, fungi and plants

For example Dirt dwelling bacteria
-	Produces compound that interfere with invertebrate’s nerve impulses.
-	Produces chemical that makes fungi cells leaky.
-	Another type of fungi creates a compound that breaks down the cell walls of a bacteria.

https://www.nhs.uk/medicines/

Types of medicines:
Name of Medicine	What it is used for	Common Side Effects	Serious Side Effects
aciclovir	Used to treat herpes, including cold sores and genital herpes	Headaches, feeling dizzy, being sick, diarrhoea, skin being sensitive to sunlight	;
acrivastine	Acrivastine is an antihistamine medicine that relieves the symptoms of allergies. It's used to treat hay fever, conjunctivitis (red, itchy eyes), eczema and hives (urticaria)	Dry mouth, feeling dizzy, difficulty sleeping, hallucinations, rashes, difficulty peeing in men	;
Adalimumab	Adalimumab is a biological medicine. It's used to reduce inflammation by acting on your immune system. Treats inflammation of: joins, skin, spine, gut and ulcers in the lining of the gut, the layer beneath the white of the eyeball	pain, swelling, redness or itchy skin where your injection was given, mild nose/throat infection, headache, stomach pain, rash, muscle or bone pain	;
Alendronic	Alendronic acid is a type of medicine called a bisphosphonate. It helps your bones stay as strong as possible. Alendronic acid is good for your bones - it makes them stronger and less likely to break.	Constipation, diarrhoea, feeling dizzy, headaches, swollen joints, indigestion, itching, feeling sleepy or tired, hair loss	;
allopurinol	Allopurinol is a medicine used to lower levels of uric acid in your blood. If you produce too much uric acid or your kidneys do not filter enough out, it can build up and cause tiny, sharp crystals to form in and around your joints.

Allopurinol is used to treat gout and kidney stones.	Feeling or being sick, skin rashes	;
Alogliptin	Alogliptin is a medicine used to treat type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is an illness where the body does not make enough insulin, or the insulin that it makes does not work properly.	Cold like symptoms, headaches, stomach ache, indigestion, diarrhoea, rash, itchy skin	;
Amitriptyline	Amitriptyline is an antidepressant medicine. It's used to treat low mood and depression.	Constipation, dizziness, dry mouth, feeling sleepy, difficulty peeing, headaches	;
Amitriptyline	Amitriptyline is a medicine used for treating pain, used to treat nerve pain, back pain, and help prevent migraine attacks (severe headache)	Constipation, dizziness, dry mouth, feeling sleepy, difficulty peeing, headache	;
Amlodipine	Amlodipine is a medicine used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension).	Headaches, feeling dizzy, flushing, pounding heartbeat	;
Amoxicillin	Amoxicillin is an antibiotic.

It's used to treat bacterial infections, such as chest infections (including pneumonia), dental abscesses and urinary tract infections (UTIs).	Feeling sick (nausea), diarrhoea	;
Apixaban	Apixaban is a type of medicine known as an anticoagulant, or blood thinner.

It makes your blood flow through your veins more easily. This means your blood will be less likely to make a dangerous blood clot.	bleeding more easily than normal, such as having nosebleeds, heavier periods, bleeding gums and bruising.	;
Aspirin	Daily low-dose aspirin is a blood thinning medicine. Aspirin is also known as acetylsalicylic acid.

Low-dose aspirin helps to prevent heart attacks and strokes in people at high risk of them.	Mild indigestion, bleeding more easily than normal - because aspirin thins your blood, it can sometimes make you bleed more easily	;
Aspirin for pain relief	Aspirin is an everyday painkiller for aches and pains such as headache, toothache and period pain. It can also be used to treat colds and "flu-like" symptoms, and to bring down a high temperature. It is also known as acetylsalicylic acid.	Mild indigestion, bleeding more easily than normal	;
Atenolol	Atenolol belongs to a group of medicines called beta blockers.

It's used to treat high blood pressure and irregular heartbeats (arrhythmia).	Feeling sleepy, tired or dizzy, cold fingers or toes, feeling sick (nausea), diarrhoea, constipation	;
Atorvastatin	Atorvastatin belongs to a group of medicines called statins.

It's used to lower cholesterol if you've been diagnosed with high blood cholesterol. It's also taken to prevent heart disease, including heart attacks and strokes.	Feeling sick, headaches, aches and pains in your joins, nosebleeds, sore throat, cold like symptons, constipation, diarrohea	;
Azathioprine	Azathioprine is a type of medicine called an immunosuppressant. Immunosuppressants help "calm" (or control) your body's immune system.	Feeling sick, headaches	;
Azithromycin	Azithromycin is an antibiotic. It's widely used to treat chest infections such as pneumonia, infections of the nose and throat such as sinus infection (sinusitis), skin infections, Lyme disease, and some sexually transmitted infections.	Feeling sick (nausea), diarrhoea or being sick, losing your appetite, headaches, feeling dizzy or tired, changes to your sense of taste	;
Beclometasone inhalers	Beclometasone inhalers (sometimes called "puffers") are used for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

They are known as "preventer" inhalers and are often brown or beige. If you have asthma or COPD, they help stop you getting symptoms.	Oral thrush (fungal infection, white patches, redness and soreness in your mouth), dry or sore throat	;
beclometasone nasal spray	Beclometasone nasal (nose) spray is used to treat cold-like symptoms caused by allergic rhinitis. This is an inflammation of the inside of your nose that can be brought on by hay fever.	Sneezing, dry or sore throat, unpleasant taste or smell, dry or sore nose	;
Beclometasone cream	Beclometasone cream and ointment are used to treat itching, swollen and irritated skin. They can help with conditions such as: eczema (causes itchy, dry and cracked skin), Psoriasis (skin condition)	No side effects	;
Bendroflumethiazide	Bendroflumethiazide is a type of medicine called a diuretic. It's used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) and the build-up of fluid in your body (oedema).

Diuretics are sometimes called 'water pills' because they make you pee more. This helps get rid of extra fluid in your body.	Feeling thirsty, dry mouth, being sick, stomach pain, diarrhoea, loss of appetite, constipation, joint pain, feeling dizzy/faint, unexpected weight loss, frequent thrush, bladder or skin infections, blurred vision, thirst	;
Benzoyl peroxide	Benzoyl peroxide is used to treat acne. It works as an antiseptic to reduce the number of germs (bacteria) on the surface of your skin.	Dry skin, red or peeling skin, burning or stinging (skin irritation)	;
Betahistine	Betahistine is a medicine used to treat the symptoms of Ménière's disease. Ménière's disease is condition of inner ear that causes, feeling like the room is spinning (vertigo), a ringing noise inside ear, pressure felt deep inside the ear, hearing loss	Feeling sick, indigestion, bloating or mild stomach ache, headache	;
Betamethasone	Betamethasone skin treatments are used to treat itching, swollen and irritated skin	No side effects	;
Bisacodyl	Bisacodyl is a laxative. This type of medicine can help you empty your bowels if you have constipation (difficulty pooing).	Feeling sick, diarrhoea, stomach pain or cramps	;
Bisoprolol	Bisoprolol is a medicine used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) and heart failure.

If you have high blood pressure, taking bisoprolol helps prevent future heart disease, heart attacks and strokes.	Headache, feeling dizzy or weak, cold hands/feet, feeling sick	;
Budesonide Inhaler	Inhaled budesonide is a medicine used for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).	Oral thrush (fungal infection), dry or sore throat, hoarse voice	;
Budesonide nasal spray	Budesonide nasal (nose) spray is used to treat cold-like symptoms caused by allergic rhinitis. This is an inflammation of the inside of your nose that can be brought on by hay fever. It is also used to reduce swelling and shrink nasal polyps.	Sneezing, dry or sore nose, dry or sore throat, unpleasant taste or smell	;
Budesonide rectal foam	Budesonide rectal foam and enemas are used to treat ulcerative colitis (Ulcerative colitis is a long-term condition where the colon and rectum become inflamed). These medicines are applied into your bottom (rectum). 	Diarrhoea, feeling sick, burning or stinging around your bottom	;
Bumetanide	Bumetanide is a type of medicine called a diuretic. It's used to treat heart failure and the build up of fluid in your body (oedema).

Diuretics are sometimes called "water pills/tablets" because they make you pee more. This helps get rid of extra fluid in your body.	Peeing more than normal, feeling thirsty and dry mouth, losing a bit of weight, headaches, feeling confused or dizzy, muscle cramps or weak muscles	;
Buprenorphine	Buprenorphine is a strong opioid painkiller. It's used to treat severe pain, for example during or after an operation or a serious injury, or pain from cancer.	Constipation, feeling or being sick, feeling dizzy, confusion, headaches, stomach pain, itching or skin rashes	;
Buscopan	Buscopan relieves painful stomach cramps, including those linked with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).

It can also help bladder cramps and period pain.

Buscopan contains the active ingredient hyoscine butylbromide.

It's not the same as hyoscine hydrobromide, which is a different medicine taken to prevent travel sickness.	Dry mouth, constipation, blurred vision, fast heart rate	;
Candesartan	Candesartan is a medicine widely used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) and heart failure.

Candesartan helps to prevent future strokes, heart attacks and kidney problems. It also improves your survival if you're taking it for heart failure.	Feeling dizzy, feeling sizk, headaches, being sick, pain in your joints	;
Carbamazepine	Carbamazepine is a medicine used to treat epilepsy (Epilepsy is a common condition that affects the brain and causes frequent seizures)

It can also be taken for nerve pain caused by diabetes (peripheral neuropathy) or if you have a painful condition of the face called trigeminal neuralgia (Trigeminal neuralgia is sudden, severe facial pain).	Skin rashes, feeling dizzy, feeling sick, headaches, dry mouth, putting on weight	;
Carbocisteine	Carbocisteine is a type of medicine called a mucolytic.

A mucolytic helps you cough up phlegm (also called mucus or sputum). It works by making your phlegm less thick and sticky.	Diarrhoea, feeling sick	;
Cefalexin	Cefalexin is an antibiotic. It belongs to a group of antibiotics called cephalosporins.

It's used to treat bacterial infections, such as pneumonia and other chest infections, skin infections and urinary tract infections (UTIs).	Feeling sick, diarrhoea, stomach pain	;
Cetirizine	Cetirizine is an antihistamine medicine that relieves the symptoms of allergies. It’s used for: hay fever, conjunctivitis (red, itchy eye), eczema (itchy skin), hives (rash)	Feeling sleepy and tired, headaches, dry mouth, feeling sick, stomach pain, diarrhoea, sore throat, cold like symptoms of the nose, itching or rash, tingling in your hands and feet, feeling agitated	;
chloramphenicol	Chloramphenicol is an antibiotic.

It's mainly used to treat eye infections (such as conjunctivitis) and sometimes ear infections.	Stinging or burning in the eye, stinging or irritation in the ear	;
Chlorphenamine	Chlorphenamine is an antihistamine medicine that relieves the symptoms of allergies.

It's known as a drowsy (sedating) antihistamine. It's more likely to make you feel sleepy than some other antihistamines. It’s used for: hey fever, red itchy eyes (conjunctivitis), eczema (itchy skin), hives (rash), insect bites and stings	Feeling sleepy, feeling sick, feeling dizzy, dry mouth, headaches, blurred vision	;
Cinnarizine	Cinnarizine is an antihistamine that stops you feeling or being sick (nausea or vomiting).

It's known as a drowsy (sedating) antihistamine. It's more likely to make you feel sleepy than other antihistamines. Used for: travel sickness (motion sickness), dizziness and sickness caused by inner ear problems such as vertigo, tinnitus and Ménière's disease (feeling like the room is spinning, ringing noises, pressure in ear, hearing loss)	Feeling sleepy during the daytime, feeling sick, indigestion, putting on weight	;
Ciprofloxacin	Ciprofloxacin is an antibiotic. It belongs to a group of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones.

It is used to treat serious infections, or infections when other antibiotics have not worked. Used to treat bacterial infections such as: chest infections, bone infections, sexually transmitted infections, conjunctivitis (eye infection, red itchy eyes)	Feeling sick (nausea), diarrhoea, red or uncomfortable eye with stinging, burning or gritty feeling, bad taste in the mouth, white specks on the surface of your eye	;
Citalopram	Citalopram is a type of antidepressant known as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI).	Dry mouth, sweating a lot, being unable to sleep, feeling sleepy, feeling tired of weak	;
Clarithromycin	Clarithromycin is an antibiotic.

It's used to treat chest infections, such as pneumonia, skin problems such as cellulitis, and ear infections.	Feeling sick, diarrhoea, being sick (vomiting), losing appetite, bloating and indigestion, headaches, difficulty sleeping (insomnia)	;
Clobetasol	Clobetasol propionate is a medicine that's used on the skin to treat swelling, itching and irritation. It can help with skin problems such as: eczema (itchy skin), Psoriasis (red, flaky, crusty patches of skin covered with silvery scales), lichen planus (rash), lupus (joint pain, skin pain, tiredness)	Burning for few mins after apply cream to skin	;
Clobetasone	Clobetasone is a medicince used on the skin to treat swelling, itching and irritation	Burning for few mins after apply cream to skin	;
Clonazepam	Clonazepam belongs to a group of medicines called benzodiazepines.

It's used to control seizures or fits due to epilepsy, involuntary muscle spasms, panic disorder and sometimes restless legs syndrome.	Disturbed sleep (vivid dreams), feeling sleepy in the daytime, feeling light headed, dizzy, muscle weakness	;
Clopidogrel	Clopidogrel is an antiplatelet medicine, or blood thinner. It makes your blood flow through your veins more easily.

This means that your blood will be less likely to make a dangerous blood clot.	Bleeding more easily, diarrhoea, stomach pain, indigestion or heartburn	;
Clotrimazole	Clotrimazole is an antifungal medicine.

It's used to treat skin infections caused by a fungus (yeast).

Clotrimazole treats different types of fungal infections including: athlete’s foot, tingworm (fungal infection, causes rash), fungal nail infection, nappy rash, thrush (yeast infection, for women: vaginal discharge fluid/mucus, itching of vagina, soreness during sex or when peeing, for men: redness around head of penis, white discharge, unpleasant smell, difficulty pulling back foreskin)	Red irritated skin, pain, burning or stinging sensation	;
Clotrimazole	Clotrimazole is an antifungal medicine.

It's used to treat yeast infections including thrush in women and men, although thrush is more common in women.

Thrush is caused by a fungus (yeast) and can affect the vagina and area around the vagina, breasts and nipples or the end of the penis. It can also affect other areas of skin, such as the armpits, top of the inner thighs (groin) and between the fingers.	red, irritated skin, pain, burning or stinging sensation	;
Co-amoxiclav	Co-amoxiclav is a combination antibiotic used for bacterial infections.

It contains amoxicillin (an antibiotic from the penicillin group of medicines) mixed with clavulanic acid. The clavulanic acid stops bacteria from breaking down amoxicillin, allowing the antibiotic to work better.	Diarrhoea, itching, redness and discomfort around your mouth; armpits, vagina, penis or groin pain, feeling or being sick	;
Co-careldopa	Co-careldopa is used to treat the main symptoms of Parkinson's disease (Parkinson's disease is a condition in which parts of the brain become progressively damaged over many years). It can help with shaking (tremors), slowness and stiffness. These are called "motor" symptoms because they affect the way you move.	Loss of appetite, feeling or being sick, feeling dizzy, problems sleeping (insomnia), uncontrollable twitching, twisting or writhing movements (dyskinesias)	;
co-codamol	Co-codamol is a mixture of 2 different painkillers – paracetamol and codeine. It's used to treat aches and pains including headaches, muscular pain, migraines and toothache.

It may help to take co-codamol if everyday painkillers, such as aspirin, ibuprofen or paracetamol on their own, have not worked.	Constipation, feeling or being sick, feeling sleepy, headaches	;
Co-codaprin	Co-codaprin is a mixture of 2 different painkillers: aspirin and codeine.

It's used to treat aches and pains, including headaches, muscular pain, migraine and toothache. It can also be used to treat the symptoms of colds and flu.	Mild indigestion, feeling or being sick, constipation, feeling sleepy, bleeding more easily than normal (aspirin thins your blood), dizziness and vertigo, headaches	;
Co-dydramol	Co-dydramol is a mixture of 2 different painkillers: paracetamol and dihydrocodeine.

It's used to treat aches and pains, including headaches, migraines, muscle and joint pain, period pain and toothache.

You will usually take co-dydramol when everyday painkillers – such as aspirin, ibuprofen and paracetamol – have not worked on their own.	Constipation, feeling or being sick, feeling sleepy, headaches	;
Codeine	Codeine is a painkiller. It's used to treat pain, for example after an operation or an injury. It's also used for long-standing pain when everyday painkillers, such as aspirin, ibuprofen and paracetamol, haven't worked.	Constipation, feeling or being sick, confusion, feeling dizzy, vertigo, dry mouth, headaches	;
Colchicine	Colchicine is a medicine for treating inflammation and pain.

It can be used to: treat flare-ups (attacks) of gout (Gout causes sudden severe joint pain), prevent increased flare-ups of gout when you first start on a medicine like allopurinol – taken to manage your condition long term
prevent flare-ups of symptoms of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) – an inherited inflammatory condition	Serious allergic reaction (in rare cases), 	;
Cyclizine	Cyclizine is an anti-sickness medicine. It's used to help stop you feeling or being sick (nausea or vomiting).

You can take cyclizine to treat morning sickness, vertigo and travel sickness.

It can also be taken to treat sickness caused by general anaesthetics after surgery, cancer treatment or other medicines, and some inner ear problems such as Ménière's disease (condition in ear, feel like room is spinning).	Feeling drowsy, blurred vision, dry mouth, headache, constipation	;
Dabigatran	Dabigatran is a type of medicine known as an anticoagulant, or blood thinner.

It makes your blood flow through your veins more easily. This means your blood will be less likely to make a dangerous blood clot.

It's used to treat people who have had a health problem caused by a blood clot, such as:
a stroke
a heart attack
a blood clot in the leg (deep vein thrombosis, or DVT)
a blood clot in the lungs (pulmonary embolism)	Makes you bleed more than usual, tiredness, lack of energy, feeling dizzy, feeling sick, stomach pain or indigestion	;
Dapagliflozin	Dapagliflozin is a medicine is mainly used to treat type 2 diabetes. Sometimes it can be used together with insulin to treat type 1 diabetes.	Thrush, back pain, peeing more than normal, feeling dizzy, mild skin rash	;
Dexamethasone	Dexamethasone is a medicine used to treat a wide range of health conditions. These include:
severe skin conditions
severe allergies (anaphylaxis)
sickness (nausea and vomiting)
croup
swelling (inflammation) in your eye
autoimmune conditions, such as lupus (joints pain)	Weight gain, indigestion, sleep problems, mild mood changes	;
Diazepam	Diazepam belongs to a group of medicines called benzodiazepines.

It's used to treat anxiety, muscle spasms and fits (seizures). It's also used in hospital to reduce alcohol withdrawal symptoms, such as sweating or difficulty sleeping.

It can also be taken to help you relax before an operation or other medical or dental treatments. This is known as a "pre-med".	Feeling sleepy, drowsy, confusion, problems controlling your movements, shaky hands (tremors)	;
Diclofenac	Diclofenac is a medicine that reduces inflammation and pain.

It's used to treat aches and pains, as well as problems with joints, muscles and bones. These include:

rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and gout
sprains and strains in muscles and ligaments
back pain
ankylosing spondylitis - this causes inflammation of the spine and other parts of the body
toothache
migraine	Headaches, feeling dizzy, stomach ache, wind, loss of appetite, feeling sick, being sick, mild rash	;
Digoxin	Digoxin is a type of medicine called a cardiac glycoside.

It’s used to control some heart problems, such as irregular heartbeats (arrhythmias) including atrial fibrillation.

It can also help to manage the symptoms of heart failure, usually with other medicines.	Feeling confused, dizzy, generally unwell, feeling or being sick, diarrhoea, changes in your vision, skin rashes	;
Dihydrocodeine	Dihydrocodeine is an opiate painkiller. It's used to treat moderate to severe pain, such as after an operation or a serious injury.

It's also used for long-standing pain when weaker painkillers, such as paracetamol, ibuprofen and aspirin, have not worked.	Constipation, feeling or being sick, feeling sleepy, confusion, dizzy, vertigo, dry mouth, headaches	;
Diltiazem	Diltiazem is a medicine used to treat high blood pressure.

If you have high blood pressure, taking diltiazem helps to prevent future heart disease, heart attacks and strokes.

Diltiazem is also used to prevent chest pain caused by angina as well as Raynaud's phenomenon. It can also be used to help heal an anal fissure.	Swollen hands, ankles or feet, headaches, feeling dizzy, lightheaded, feeling tied, weak and generally unwell, feeling hot (flushing) and redness of the skin, itching or burning on the skin, stomach pain, indigestion and constipation	;
Diphenhydramine	Diphenhydramine is an antihistamine medicine that relieves the symptoms of allergies. It's known as a drowsy (sedating) antihistamine and is more likely to make you feel sleepy than other antihistamines. It's used for:

short-term sleep problems (insomnia), including when a cough or cold, or itching, is keeping you awake at night - brand names include Nytol Original, Nytol One-a-Night and Sleepeaze
cough and cold symptoms - brand names include Benylin Chesty Coughs and Covonia Night Time Formula
hay fever - brand names include Histergan
eczema, hives (urticaria), insect bites and stings - brand names include Histergan	Feeling sleepy during day time, dry mouth, feeling dizzy, unsteady on your feet	;
Dipyridamole	Dipyridamole is an antiplatelet medicine, or blood thinner. It makes your blood flow through your veins more easily. This means your blood will be less likely to make a dangerous blood clot.

Taking dipyridamole helps to prevent blood clots if you have an increased risk of having them. Your risk is higher if you have or have had:

a stroke or "mini-stroke"(transient ischaemic attack or TIA)
an operation on your heart to replace your heart valves	Feeling sick, diarrhoea, being sick, headaches, feeling dizzy, feeling hot and flushed	;
Docusate	Docusate is a laxative that is used to treat constipation (difficulty pooing). It helps to soften your poo and makes your bowel movements easier.

It is helpful when you have difficulty going to the toilet because of dry poos or piles (haemorrhoids) or if you have a tear in the lining of your anus (an anal fissure).

You may also be given docusate if you're going to have an x-ray of your stomach. It can help you empty your bowels beforehand.	Feeling sick (nausea), diarrhoea, stomach cramps	;
Domperidone	Domperidone is an anti-sickness medicine. It helps you to stop feeling or being sick (nausea or vomiting).

It can also be used to treat stomach pain if you're having end of life care (palliative care).

Domperidone is sometimes used to increase milk supply. Your doctor may prescribe it if you're having trouble breastfeeding but only if other things have not worked.	Muscles or eyes start moving in an unusual way (very rare), problems peeing (rare), serious allergic reaction (rare)	;
Donepezil	Donepezil is a medicine that helps with some types of dementia.

It does not cure dementia. However, it treats some of the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease or dementia with Lewy bodies.

It can also help with "mixed dementia". This is when you have more than one type of dementia.	Diarrhoea, feeling sick, headache, feeling sleepy in the daytime, feeling dizzy	;
Dosulepin	Dosulepin is an antidepressant medicine. It's used to treat depression.

It's also occasionally used for some types of nerve pain, such as fibromyalgia, and to prevent migraines.	Constipation, dizziness, dry mouth, feeling sleepy, tired or weak, difficulty peeing, headaches	;
Doxazosin	Doxazosin belongs to a group of medicines called alpha-blockers.

It's used to treat high blood pressure and symptoms of an enlarged prostate (benign prostatic enlargement).	Feeling weak, headaches, swollen feet, ankles or fingers, urinary tract infection, stomach pain, feeling or being sick	;
Doxycycline	Doxycycline is an antibiotic.

It's used to treat infections such as chest infections, skin infections, rosacea, dental infections and sexually transmitted infections (STIs), as well as a lot of other rare infections.

It can also be used to prevent malaria if you're travelling abroad.	Headaches, feeling or being sick, being sensitive to sunlight	;
Duloxetine	Duloxetine is an antidepressant medicine.

It's used to treat depression and anxiety.

It's also used to treat nerve pain, such as fibromyalgia, and can be used to treat stress urinary incontinence in women.	Difficulty sleeping, headaches, blurred vision, constipation, diarrhoea, feeling or being sick, dry mouth, sweating, tiredness, less appetite than usual and weight loss, feeling less interested in sex, or having problems keeping an erection or reaching orgasm	;
Edoxaban	Edoxaban is a type of medicine known as an anticoagulant - or blood thinner.

It makes your blood flow through your veins more easily. This means your blood will be less likely to make a dangerous blood clot.

It's used to treat people who have had a health problem caused by a blood clot such as:
a stroke
a heart attack
a blood clot in the leg - a deep vein thrombosis (DVT)
a blood clot in the lungs - a pulmonary embolism	Bleed more then normal, tiredness, feeling dizzy or lightheaded, feeling or being sick, stomach pain and indigestion	;
Empagliflozin	Empagliflozin is a medicine used to treat type 2 diabetes.

Type 2 diabetes is a condition where the body does not make enough insulin, or the insulin that it makes does not work properly. This can cause high blood sugar levels (hyperglycaemia).	Thrush, pain or a burning feeling when you pee, peeing more than normal, mild skin rash, itchy skin	;
Enalapril	Enalapril is a medicine used to reduce high blood pressure and to prevent or treat heart failure.

If you have high blood pressure, taking enalapril will help prevent a future heart attack or stroke.	Dry, tickly cough that does not go away, feeling dizzy or lightheaded (especially when stand up quickly), headache, diarrhoea, mild skin rash, blurred vision	;
Erythromycin	Erythromycin is an antibiotic.

It's widely used to treat chest infections, such as pneumonia, skin problems, such as acne and rosacea, dental abscesses, and sexually transmitted infections.

Erythromycin is used in children, often to treat ear infections or chest infections.	Feeling sick, being sick, stomach cramps, loss of appetite, bloating and indigestion	;
Escitalopram	Escitalopram is a type of antidepressant known as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI).

It's often used to treat depression and is sometimes used for anxiety, obsessive compulsive disorder or panic attacks.

Escitalopram helps many people recover from depression and has fewer unwanted effects than older antidepressants.	Dry mouth, sweating a lot, being unable to sleep, feeling sleepy, feeling tied or weak	;
Esomeprazole	Esomeprazole reduces the amount of acid your stomach makes.

It's used for heartburn, acid reflux and gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) - GORD is when you keep getting acid reflux. It's also taken to prevent and treat stomach ulcers.

Sometimes, esomeprazole is taken for a rare illness caused by a tumour in the pancreas or gut called Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.

Esomeprazole also comes mixed with naproxen, a medicine that reduces inflammation and pain in joints and muscles.

Esomeprazole comes as capsules, tablets, granules and as a liquid.	Headaches, diarrhoea, feeling or being sick, constipation, stomach pain or wind	;
Ezetimibe	Ezetimibe is a type of medicine used to lower cholesterol.

It's used to treat high blood cholesterol (high cholesterol is when you have too much of a fatty substance called cholesterol in your blood). This is when you have too much of a fatty substance called cholesterol in your blood.

You may also be prescribed ezetimibe if you cannot take cholesterol-lowering medicines called statins, or if statins do not work for you.	Stomach pain, diarrhoea, farting more than usual, feeling more tired than usual	;
Felodipine	Felodipine is a medicine used to treat high blood pressure.

If you have high blood pressure, taking felodipine helps to prevent future heart disease, heart attacks and strokes.

Felodipine is also used to prevent angina (chest pain caused by heart disease).	Headaches, dizziness, flushing (feeling hot), a pounding heartbeat, swollen ankles	;
Fentanyl	Fentanyl is a strong opioid painkiller. It's used to treat severe pain, for example during or after an operation or a serious injury, or pain from cancer.

It is also used for other types of pain that you've had for a long time when weaker painkillers have stopped working.	Constipation, feeling or being sick, stomach pain, feeling sleep/tired, feeling dizzy, sensation of spinning (vertigo), confusion, headaches, itching or skin rashes	;
Ferrous	Ferrous fumarate is a medicine used to treat and prevent iron deficiency anaemia.

Iron helps the body to make healthy red blood cells which carry oxygen around the body. Some things such as blood loss, pregnancy or too little iron in your diet can make your iron supply drop too low, leading to anaemia.

Ferrous fumarate comes as tablets, capsules or as a liquid that you swallow.	Feeling or being sick, loss of appetite, constipation, diarrhoea, dark or black poo, black stained teeth	;
Ferrous sulfate	Ferrous sulfate (or sulphate) is a medicine used to treat and prevent iron deficiency anaemia.

Iron helps the body to make healthy red blood cells, which carry oxygen around the body. Some things such as blood loss, pregnancy or too little iron in your diet can make your iron supply drop too low, leading to anaemia.

Ferrous sulfate comes as tablets, or as drops that you swallow.

There are modified-release tablets and capsules of ferrous sulfate, but they may not be absorbed as well.	Feeling or being sick, loss of appetite, constipation, diarrhoea, dark or black poo, black stained teeth	;
Fexofenadine	Fexofenadine is an antihistamine medicine that helps with the symptoms of allergies.

It's used to treat:
hay fever
conjunctivitis (red, itchy eye)
eczema
hives (urticaria)
reactions to insect bites and stings
some food allergies
Fexofenadine is known as a non-drowsy antihistamine. It's less likely to make you feel sleepy than some other antihistamines.	Feeling sick, feeling sleepy, headaches, dry mouth, feeling dizzy	;
Finasteride	Finasteride is used to treat men with an enlarged prostate (benign prostate enlargement). It can help ease your symptoms if:

it's difficult to start peeing
you need to pee urgently or frequently more often
it's difficult to empty your bladder completely	Problems getting an erection and less interest in having sex, problems with ejaculating such as little or no semen	;
Flucloxacillin	Flucloxacillin is an antibiotic.

It's used to treat skin and wound infections, chest infections, such as pneumonia, and bone infections (osteomyelitis).

Flucloxacillin is used in children, often to treat ear infections and chest infections.	Feeling sick, being sick, bloating and indigestion	;
Fluconazole	Fluconazole is an antifungal medicine. It's used to treat infections caused by different kinds of fungus.	Headache, stomach pain, diarrhoea, feeling or being sick, rash	
Fluoxetine	Fluoxetine is a type of antidepressant known as an SSRI (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor).

It is often used to treat depression, and also sometimes obsessive compulsive disorder and bulimia.

Fluoxetine helps many people recover from depression, and it has fewer unwanted effects than older antidepressants.	Feeling sick, headaches, being unable to sleep, diarrhoea, feeling tired or weak	;
Inhaled fluticasone	Inhaled fluticasone is a medicine used for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

You can take it using an inhaler (sometimes called a "puffer") which is usually brown or beige. This is called a "preventer" inhaler because it helps to prevent you from getting symptoms.	Oral thrush, dry or sore throat	;
Fluticasone	Fluticasone nasal (nose) spray is a steroid nasal spray for cold-like symptoms caused by allergic rhinitis. This is inflammation of the inside of your nose that can be from hay fever.

Fluticasone is a type of medicine called a steroid (or corticosteroid). Corticosteroids are a copy of a substance your body makes naturally. They are not the same as anabolic steroids.	Unpleasant taste or smell, dry or sore nose, noebleeds, dry or sore throat, hoarse voice, headace	;
Fluticasone	Fluticasone cream and ointment are used to treat itching, swollen and irritated skin. They can help with conditions such as:
eczema (skin itching)
psoriasis (red, flaky skin)
lichen planus (a type of rash)
lupus (joint pain)	Burning or stinging feeling for a few mins when applying cream	;
Folic acid	Folic acid is the man-made version of the vitamin folate (also known as vitamin B9).

Folate helps the body make healthy red blood cells and is found in certain foods.

Folic acid is used to:

treat or prevent folate deficiency anaemia
help your unborn baby's brain, skull and spinal cord develop properly to avoid development problems (called neural tube defects) such as spina bifida
help reduce side effects from methotrexate, a medicine used to treat severe arthritis, Crohn's disease or psoriasis	Feeling sick, loss of appetite, bloating or wind	;
Furosemide	Furosemide is a type of medicine called a diuretic. It's used to treat high blood pressure, heart failure and oedema (a build up of fluid in the body).

It's also sometimes used to help you pee when your kidneys aren't working properly.

Diuretics are sometimes called "water pills/tablets" because they make you pee more.	Peeing more than normal, feeling thirsty, dry mouth, headaches, feeling confused or dizzy, muscle cramps, weak muscles, feeling or being sick, fast or irregular heartbeat	;
Fusidic acid	Fusidic acid is an antibiotic.

It's used to treat bacterial infections, such as skin infections including cellulitis and impetigo, and eye infections including conjunctivitis (red, itchy eyes).	Skin irritation	;
Fybogel	Fybogel is a laxative taken to treat constipation (difficulty pooing).

It comes as plain or fruit-flavoured granules that you mix with water to make a high-fibre drink.	Mild allergic reaction	;
Gabapentin	Gabapentin is used to treat epilepsy.

It's also taken for nerve pain. Nerve pain can be caused by different illnesses, including diabetes and shingles, or it can happen after an injury.

Occasionally, gabapentin is used to treat migraine headaches.	Feeling sleepy, tired or dizzy, feeling sick, getting more infections that usual, mood changes, swollen arms and legs, blurred vision, dry mouth, difficulties for men getting an erection, weight gain, memory problems, headaches	;
Gaviscon	Gaviscon can be used to treat heart burn (acid reflux) and indigestion.

The medicine forms a protective layer that floats on top of the contents of your stomach. This stops stomach acid escaping up into your food pipe. Gaviscon also contains an antacid that neutralises excess stomach acid and reduces pain and discomfort.

Gaviscon comes as tablets or liquid in bottles or sachets. It also comes as a powder for babies and children under 2 years old.	No side effects, very safe	;
Gliclazide	Gliclazide is a medicine used to treat type 2 diabetes.

Type 2 diabetes is an illness where the body does not make enough insulin, or the insulin that's made does not work properly. This causes high blood sugar (hyperglycaemia).

Gliclazide lowers your blood sugar by increasing the amount of insulin your body produces.	Stomach ache, indigestion, feeling sick, being sick, constipation	;
Glimepiride	Glimepiride is a medicine used to treat type 2 diabetes.

Type 2 diabetes is a condition where the body doesn't make enough insulin, or the insulin that it makes doesn't work properly. This can cause high blood sugar levels (hyperglycaemia).

Glimepiride lowers your blood sugar by increasing the amount of insulin your body produces.	Feeling sick, diarrhoea	;
Glyceryl trinitrate	Glyceryl trinitrate, or GTN, is a type of medicine called a nitrate. It is used to treat angina (chest pain).

It can help stop chest pain if an angina attack has already started. It can also help to prevent them from starting.

GTN ointment can also be used to treat tears in the skin around your bottom (anal fissures).	Headaches (very common), feeling dizzy, feeling weak, tied/sleepy, feeling sick, red face (flushing)	;
Heparinoid	Heparinoid is a medicine that reduces swelling and helps with healing.

It is used to treat:
bruises
internal bruising (haematoma)
varicose veins and other inflamed veins (phlebitis)
piles (haemorrhoids) and itchy bottom	No side effects	;
Hydrocortisone	Hydrocortisone is a corticosteroid medicine or ‘steroid’.

It works by damping down the body’s immune response to reduce pain, itching and swelling.

It can also be used as hormone replacement for people who don't have enough of the natural stress hormone, cortisol.

Hydrocortisone is used to treat many health problems. The medicine comes in different ways, including skin creams for the body and scalp, injections and tablets. The type of hydrocortisone you use will depend on your health problem.	N/A	;
Hydrocortisone buccal	Hydrocortisone buccal tablets are small white pellets which stick gently to the inside of your mouth and release hydrocortisone as they dissolve.

Hydrocortisone is a type of medicine known as a corticosteroid or 'steroid'. Corticosteroids are not the same as anabolic steroids.

Hydrocortisone buccal tablets relieve the soreness of mouth ulcers and speed up healing.	No side effects	;
Hydrocortisone	Hydrocortisone is used in some medicines to treat:
piles (haemorrhoids) inside or around your back passage
itchy bottom (anus)	No side effects	;
Hydrocortisone	Hydrocortisone injections - or 'steroid injections' - are a type of medicine known as a corticosteroid. Corticosteroids are not the same as anabolic steroids.

Hydrocortisone injections are used to treat swollen or painful joints, such as after an injury or in arthritis.

The hydrocortisone is injected directly into the painful joint. This is also called an intra-articular injection. The joints most often injected are the shoulder, elbow, knee, hand/wrist and hip.	Intense pain, swelling where injection was given	;
Hydrocortisone	Hydrocortisone rectal foam is applied directly into the back passage to treat ulcerative colitis and similar diseases of the bowel.

Ulcerative colitis is a long-term illness where patches of inflammation, and sometimes ulcers, grow in the lining of the bowel. The most common symptoms are tummy pain and diarrhoea mixed with blood.

Hydrocortisone rectal foam isn't a cure. It calms down the inflammation in the bowel - and in turn reduces the symptoms.	No side effects	;
Hydrocortisone creams	Hydrocortisone creams, ointments and lotions contain a type of medicine known as a corticosteroid or 'steroid'. Corticosteroids are not the same as anabolic steroids.

Hydrocortisone creams are used on the skin to treat swelling, itching and irritation. They can help with skin problems such as:

eczema
psoriasis
contact dermatitis
prickly heat rash
insect bites and stings
nappy rash	Very safe, no side effects	;
Hydrocortisone	Hydrocortisone tablets are a type of medicine known as a corticosteroid or 'steroid'. Corticosteroids are not the same as anabolic steroids.

Hydrocortisone tablets work as a hormone replacement for a natural 'steroid' hormone called cortisol.

You may take hydrocortisone tablets if your body doesn't make enough cortisol - for example if you have Addison's disease - or if you've had your adrenal glands taken out in an operation	Dizziness, headaches, feeling weak or tired, muscle ache, stomach problems, feeling sick, diarrhoea, swollen ankles	;
Hydroxocobalamin	Hydroxocobalamin is a manufactured version of the vitamin B12. It is used to treat and prevent vitamin B12 deficiency anaemia (when you have low levels of this vitamin in the body).

The most common cause of vitamin B12 deficiency in the UK is pernicious anaemia.	Pain, swelling, itchy skin, feeling sick, being sick, diarrhoea, feeling dizzy, hot flushes	;
Hyoscine hydrobromide	Hyoscine hydrobromide is taken to prevent travel sickness (motion sickness).

It can also be used to reduce the amount of saliva in your mouth. This can help with symptoms if you're having palliative care or end of life care.	Feeling sleepy, dizzy, dry mouth, constipation, blurred vision, itchy eyelids, problems peeing	;
ibuprofen and codeine	You can buy ibuprofen and codeine combined as one medicine from pharmacies.

It's used to treat a range of aches and pains, including back pain, period pain, toothache, strains and sprains, and pain from arthritis.

It's usually taken when everyday painkillers, such as paracetamol, ibuprofen and aspirin alone, have not worked.	Headaches, feeling dizzy, feeling sleepy, constipation, feeling sick, indigestion, heartburn, diarrhoea, being sick, wind	;
Ibuprofen	Ibuprofen is an everyday painkiller for a range of aches and pains, including back pain, period pain, toothache. It also treats inflammation such as strains and sprains, and pain from arthritis.	Headaches, felling dizzy, feeling sick, being sick, wind, indigestion	;
Indapamide	Indapamide is a type of medicine called a diuretic.

Diuretics are sometimes called "water pills/tablets" because they make you pee more.

Indapamide is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). It's also sometimes used to treat heart failure.	Peeing more than normal, mild skin rash, feeling or being sick, feeling dizzy or faint	;
Irbesartan	Irbesartan is a medicine widely used to treat high blood pressure.

Irbesartan helps to prevent future strokes, heart attacks and kidney problems.	Feeling dizzy, headache, feeling sick, being sick, pain in your joints or muscles	;
Isotretinoin	Isotretinoin capsules are a very effective treatment for severe acne (spots).

This medicine can have serious side effects, however, so it must be prescribed and supervised by a specialist doctor.

Isotretinoin capsules are also known by the brand names Roaccutane and Rizuderm.	Skin becoming more sensitive to sunlight, dry eyes, dry throat, dry nose, headaches, general aches and pains	;
Isotretinoin	Isotretinoin gel (Isotrex) has been discontinued by the manufacturer.

It was used to treat severe acne	N/A	;
Labetalol	Labetalol belongs to a group of medicines called beta blockers.

It's used to treat high blood pressure, including high blood pressure in pregnancy.

It can also be used to prevent chest pain caused by angina.

If you have high blood pressure, taking labetalol helps to prevent future heart disease, heart attacks and strokes.	Feeling dizzy or weak, itchy skin, rash, headaches, tingling scalp, difficulty peeing	;
Lactulose	Lactulose is a laxative taken to treat constipation (difficulty pooing). It is also taken to help a severe liver disease called hepatic encephalopathy.

Lactulose comes as a sweet syrup that you swallow.	Bloating, wind, feeling sick, being sick, stomach pain	;
Lamotrigine	Lamotrigine is a medicine used to treat epilepsy.

It can also help prevent low mood (depression) in adults with bipolar disorder (Bipolar disorder is a mental health condition that affects your moods, which can swing from 1 extreme to another. It used to be known as manic depression.).	Skin rash (common), headaches, feeling drowsy, sleepy, dizzy, aggression, feeling irritable, agitated, shaking, tremors, diarrhoea, feeling or being sick	;
Lansoprazole	Lansoprazole reduces the amount of acid your stomach makes. It's used for indigestion, heartburn and acid reflux and gastroesophageal-reflux-disease (GORD). Lansoprazole is also taken to prevent and treat stomach ulcers.

Sometimes, lansoprazole is taken for a rare illness caused by a tumour in the pancreas or gut called Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.	Headaches, feeling sick, diarrhoea, being sick, stomach pain, constipation, wind, itchy skin rashes, feeling dizzy, dry mouth or throat	;
Latanoprost	Latanoprost is a medicine that treats high pressure inside the eye.

Increased pressure can damage your optic nerve and cause vision loss or blindness. Your doctor may give it to you if you have glaucoma (Glaucoma is a common eye condition where the optic nerve, which connects the eye to the brain, becomes damaged) or high pressure in the eye (ocular hypertension).	Change in eye colour, redness of the eye, irritated eye, changes to your eyelashes (growing longer and thicker), sensitivity to light (photophobia)	;
Lercanidipine	Lercanidipine is a medicine used to treat high blood pressure.

If you have high blood pressure, taking lercanidipine helps prevent heart disease, heart attacks and strokes.	Headaches, dizziness, flushing, a pounding heartbeat, swollen ankles	;
Letrozole	Letrozole is a medicine used for treating breast cancer. It can also help prevent breast cancer coming back.

It is mainly prescribed for women who have been through the menopause (The menopause is when a woman stops having periods and is no longer able to get pregnant naturally) and have a type of cancer called "hormone-dependent" breast cancer.

Most people who take letrozole will have had surgery, radiotherapy or sometimes chemotherapy to treat their breast cancer first.	Hot flushes, sweating, itchy vagina, bleeding vagina, difficulty sleeping, feeling very tired, feeling or being sick, loss of appetite, mild aches in your muscles and bones, numb or tingling hands, changes to your skin including mild rash, hair loss, low mood, depression	;
Levetiracetam	Levetiracetam is a medicine used to treat epilepsy (Epilepsy is a common condition that affects the brain and causes frequent seizures).

Levetiracetam is available on prescription.	A blocked nose, itchy throat, feeling drowsy, sleepy, dizzy, headaches, aggression, feeling irritable, agitated, feeling or being sick	;
Levothyroxine	Levothyroxine is a medicine used to treat an underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism, An underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism) is where your thyroid gland does not produce enough hormones).

The thyroid gland makes thyroid hormone which helps to control energy levels and growth. Levothyroxine is taken to replace the missing thyroid hormone.	Feeling sick, being sick, feeling restless or excitable, having problems sleeping, flushing, sweating, muscle cramps, shaking (usually of the hands)	;
Lidocaine	Lidocaine is a local anaesthetic. It's used in some medicines to treat:

mouth ulcers
sore throats
teething
soreness caused by dentures
Lidocaine treatments for mouth and throat come as gels, ointments, liquids and sprays.	Very safe, no side effects	;
Lidocaine (for itchy bottom)	Lidocaine is a local anaesthetic. It's used in some medicines to treat:

piles (haemorrhoids) inside or around your bottom (anus)
itchy bottom
These treatments do not cure piles but they can help with the pain and itching.

Lidocaine treatments for piles come as creams, ointments, sprays and suppositories. You can buy them from a pharmacy.	Very safe, no side effects	;
Lidocaine	Lidocaine is a local anaesthetic. Using the skin cream makes your skin numb.

You can use it before having blood taken or having a drip put in. Your doctor or nurse may also tell you to use it before having a small surgical procedure.	Very safe, no side effects	;
Linagliptin	Linagliptin is a medicine used to treat type 2 diabetes.

Type 2 diabetes is an illness where the body does not make enough insulin, or the insulin that it makes does not work properly. This can cause high blood sugar levels (hyperglycaemia).

Linagliptin is prescribed for people who still have high blood sugar, even though they have a sensible diet and exercise regularly.	No side effects	;
Lisinopril	Lisinopril is a medicine to treat high blood pressure and heart failure.

It's also prescribed after a heart attack and in diabetic kidney disease.

Lisinopril helps prevent future strokes and heart attacks. It also improves your survival if you're taking it after a recent heart attack or for heart failure.

And it also slows down diabetic kidney disease.	A dry tickly cough that does not go away, feeling dizzy or lightheaded, headaches, diarrhoea, being sick, itching or mild skin rash, blurred vision	;
Lithium	Lithium is a type of medicine known as a mood stabiliser.

It's used to treat mood disorders such as:

mania (feeling highly excited, overactive or distracted)
hypo-mania (similar to mania, but less severe)
regular periods of depression, where treatment with other medicines has not worked
bipolar disorder, where your mood changes between feeling very high (mania) and very low (depression)
Lithium can also help reduce aggressive or self-harming behaviour.	Feeling sick, diarrhoea, a dry mouth, feeling thirsty, slight shaking of the hands (mild tremor), feeling tired or sleepy, weight gain	;
Loperamide	Loperamide is a medicine to treat diarrhoea (runny poo). It can help with short term diarrhoea or irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).

Loperamide is also used for longer lasting diarrhoea from bowel problems such as Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and short bowel syndrome. If you have a colostomy to give you a stoma (an opening in your stomach to collect poo from your body), loperamide can help to slow down your bowel and make your poo thicker.	Constipation, feeling dizzy, feeling sick, headaches, wind	;
Loratadine	Loratadine is an antihistamine medicine that relieves the symptoms of allergies. It's used to treat:
hay fever
conjunctivitis (red itchy eyes)
eczema
hives (urticaria)
It's also used for reactions to insect bites and stings and for some food allergies.

Loratadine is known as a non-drowsy antihistamine. It's much less likely to make you feel sleepy than some other antihistamines.	Headaches, feeling tired, feeling nervous	;
Lorazepam	Lorazepam belongs to a group of medicines called benzodiazepines.

It's used to treat anxiety and sleeping problems that are related to anxiety.

It can be taken to help you relax before an operation or other medical or dental treatment. This is known as a "pre-med".	Feeling sleepy, very tired in the daytime, muscle weakness, problems with your coordination or controlling your movements	;
Losartan	Losartan is a medicine widely used to treat high blood pressure and heart failure, and to protect your kidneys if you have both kidney disease and diabetes.

Losartan helps to prevent future strokes, heart attacks and kidney problems.

It also improves your survival if you're taking it for heart failure or after a heart attack.	Feeling dizzy, headaches, feeling sick, pain in your joins or muscles	;
Low dose aspirin	Daily low-dose aspirin is a blood thinning medicine. Aspirin is also known as acetylsalicylic acid.

Low-dose aspirin helps to prevent heart attacks and strokes in people at high risk of them.	Mild indigestion, bleeding more then normally	;
Macrogol	Macrogol (or macrogols) is a laxative taken to treat constipation (difficulty pooing). It's also taken to help clear a build-up of hard poo in your bowel, which can happen if you've been constipated for a long time (faecal impaction).

It can also be given before a colonoscopy (a test to check inside your bowels) to empty your bowels before the test. Find out about getting ready for a colonoscopy.	Diarrhoea, indigestion, stomach pain, bloating and wind, feeling or being sick, sore buttom	;
Mebendazole	Mebendazole is a type of medicine for treating worms.

It is used mainly for infections of the gut such as threadworms (sometimes known as pinworms) and other less common worm infections (whipworm, roundworm and hookworm).	Stomach pain, stomach discomfort including bloating and wind, diarrhoea	;
Mebeverine	Mebeverine hydrochloride is a type of medicine known as an antispasmodic. It helps with muscle spasms.

It can be used to ease painful stomach cramps if you have irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) or other conditions.

Mebeverine comes as tablets or slow-release capsules (also called modified release). It is sometimes available as a liquid if you have trouble swallowing tablets.	Mild itchy skin or rash (rare)	;
Melatonin	Melatonin is a hormone that occurs naturally in your body. It helps control your sleep patterns.

You can take a manmade version of melatonin for short-term sleep problems (insomnia). It makes you fall asleep quicker and less likely to wake up during the night. It can also help with symptoms of jetlag.

Melatonin is used to treat sleep problems in people aged 55 and over.

It can sometimes be prescribed to help with sleep problems in children and to prevent headaches in adults.	Feeling sleepy or tired in the daytime, headache, stomach ache, feeling sick, feeling dizzy, feeling irritable or restless, dry mouth, itchy skin, pains in your arms or legs, strange dreams or night sweats	;
Metformin	Metformin is a medicine used to treat type 2 diabetes, and to help prevent type 2 diabetes if you're at high risk of developing it.

Metformin is used when treating polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), although it's not officially approved for PCOS.

Type 2 diabetes is an illness where the body does not make enough insulin, or the insulin that it makes does not work properly. This can cause high blood sugar levels (hyperglycaemia).	Feeling sick, being sick, stomach ache, loss of appetite, a metallic taste in the mouth	;
Methotrexate	Methotrexate is a type of medicine called an immunosuppressant. It slows down your body's immune system and helps reduce inflammation.

It is used to treat inflammatory conditions, including:

rheumatoid arthritis
psoriasis (including psoriatic arthritis)
Crohn's disease
It can also be prescribed for other autoimmune conditions such as sarcoidosis.	Loss of appetite, feeling or being sick, stomach ache, indigestion, diarrhoea, feeling tired or drowsy, hair loss, 	;
Metoclopramide	Metoclopramide is an anti-sickness medicine (known as an antiemetic). It's used to help stop you feeling or being sick (nausea or vomiting) including:
after radiotherapy or chemotherapy (treatment for cancer)
sickness you may get with a migraine
if you've had an operation
at the end of life (palliative care)	Feeling sleepy, lack of energy, low mood, feeling dizzy or faint (could be sign of low blood pressure), diarrhoea	;
	Metoprolol belongs to a group of medicines called beta blockers.

It's used to:
treat high blood pressure
treat illnesses that cause an irregular heartbeat
prevent future heart disease, heart attacks and strokes
prevent chest pain caused by angina
prevent migraines	Headaches, feeling tired, dizzy, weak, cold hands or feet, feeling sick, stomach ache	;
Metronidazole	Metronidazole is an antibiotic.

It's used to treat skin infections, rosacea and mouth infections (including infected gums and dental abscesses). It's used in the treatment of conditions such as bacterial vaginosis and pelvic inflammatory disease.

It's also used to treat infected insect bites, skin ulcers, bed sores and wounds, and to treat and prevent bacterial and parasitic infections.	Feeling sick, being sick, metallic taste in your mouth or furry tongue	;
	Mirabegron is a medicine that eases the symptoms of overactive bladder. It does not treat your condition.

It helps with symptoms such as:

a sudden and urgent need to pee (urinary urgency)
needing to pee more often than usual (urinary frequency)
wetting yourself if you cannot make it to the loo in time (urinary incontinence)
Mirabegron works by relaxing the muscles around your bladder. This means your bladder can hold more liquid and reduces your need to pee as often or as urgently.	Feeling sick, constipation, diarrhoea	;
Mirtazapine	Mirtazapine is an antidepressant medicine. It's used to treat depression and sometimes obsessive compulsive disorder and anxiety disorders.	Dry mouth, increased appetite and weight gain, headaches, feeling sleepy, constipation	;
Mometasone	Mometasone is a medicine used to treat asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

It comes as a "twisthaler" which is a type of inhaler. It's also called a preventer inhaler as it helps prevent you getting symptoms.	Dry or sore throat, hoarse voice, oral thrush (fungal infection that causes white patches, redness and soreness in your mouth), headaches	;
Mometasone	Mometasone nasal (nose) spray is used to treat cold-like symptoms caused by allergic rhinitis. This is inflammation of the inside of the nose that can be brought on by hay fever.

Mometasone is also used to treat other conditions, such as nasal polyps in adults.

Mometasone is a type of medicine known as a steroid (or corticosteroid). Corticosteroids are a copy of a hormone that your body makes naturally. They are not the same as anabolic steroids.	Headaches, unpleasant taste or smell, sneezing, nosebleeds, dry or sore nose/throat	;
Montelukast	Montelukast is used to prevent the symptoms of asthma. It's usually prescribed when asthma is mild and can stop it from getting worse.

It can also help people with asthma who have breathing difficulties when they exercise (exercise-induced asthma) and seasonal allergies, such as sneezing, itchiness and a blocked or runny nose (allergic rhinitis).

Montelukast is sometimes given to people without asthma to treat hives (urticaria) that last for a long time (more than 6 weeks).	Diarrhoea, high temperature, headaches, stomach ache, feeling or being sick, a mild rash	;
Morphine	Morphine is a strong painkiller. It's used to treat severe pain, for example after an operation or a serious injury, or pain from cancer or a heart attack.

It's also used for other types of long-standing pain when weaker painkillers no longer work.	Constipation, feeling or being sick, feeling sleepy, dizziness and vertigo, confusion, headaches, itchiness or rash	;
Naproxen	Naproxen is a medicine that reduces inflammation and pain in joints and muscles.

It's used to treat diseases of joints, such as rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and gout.

It's also used for period pain and muscle and bone disorders, such as back pain and sprains and strains.	Confusion, headaches, ringing in the ears, changes in vision, tiredness, feeling sleepy, dizziness, rashes	;
Nefopam	Nefopam is a painkiller. It's used to treat moderate pain, for example after an operation or a serious injury, dental pain, joint pain or muscle pain, or pain from cancer.	Feeling sick, dizzy, feeling nervous, confusion, shaky, dry mouth, difficulty peeing, seeing things that aren’t real (hallucinations), numbness or tingling in your hands and feet	;
Nicorandil	Nicorandil is a medicine used to prevent and treat chest pain caused by angina (Angina is chest pain caused by reduced blood flow to the heart muscles. It's not usually life threatening, but it's a warning sign that you could be at risk of a heart attack or stroke).	Headaches, feeling dizzy, weak, feeling sick, flushing	;
Nifedipine	Nifedipine is a medicine used to treat high blood pressure. If you have high blood pressure, taking nifedipine helps to prevent future heart disease, heart attacks and strokes.	Headaches, dizziness, flushing, pounding heartbeat, swollen ankles, constipation	;
Nitrofurantoin	Nitrofurantoin is an antibiotic.

It's used to treat urinary tract infections (UTIs), including cystitis and kidney infections.

When you take nitrofurantoin, your body quickly filters it out of your blood and into your pee. This is useful if you have a urinary tract infection because it means the medicine is concentrated at the site of infection. But it means nitrofurantoin won't work for any other types of infection.	Feeling sick, being sick, loss of appetite, headaches, dizziness, feeling sleepy	;
Nystatin	Nystatin is an antifungal medicine. It's used to treat or prevent infections caused by a fungus (or yeast). These include: oral thrush, and skin infections	Diarrhoea, feeling or being sick, rash, itchy dry or swollen skin, getting new infection.	;
Olmesartan	Olmesartan is a medicine used to treat high blood pressure. Olmesartan helps prevent future strokes, heart attacks and kidney problems.	Feeling dizzy, headaches, flu like symptoms, pain in your back, bones or joints, feeling sick, diarrhoea, swollen feet, ankles or legs	;
Omeprazole	Omeprazole reduces the amount of acid your stomach makes. It's a widely used treatment for indigestion and heartburn and acid reflux. It's also taken to prevent and treat stomach ulcers.

Sometimes omeprazole is taken for a rare illness caused by a tumour in the pancreas or gut called Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.

Omeprazole comes as capsules, tablets and as a liquid that you swallow (this is made to order).	Headaches, feeling sick, being sick, diarrhoea, stomach pain, constipation, wind	;
Oxycodone	Oxycodone is an opiate painkiller. It's used to treat severe pain, for example after an operation or a serious injury, or pain from cancer.

It's also used for other types of long-standing pain when weaker painkillers, such as paracetamol, ibuprofen and aspirin, have not worked.	Constipation, feeling or being sick, stomach discomfort, feeling sleepy, tired, dizzy or confused, headaches, itchiness, rash	;
Pantoprazole	Pantoprazole reduces the amount of acid your stomach makes.

It's used for heartburn, acid reflux and gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) - GORD is when you keep getting acid reflux. It's also taken to prevent and treat stomach ulcers.

Sometimes, pantoprazole is taken for a rare illness caused by a tumour in the pancreas or gut called Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.

Pantoprazole comes as tablets. It also comes as liquid that you swallow.	Headaches, diarrhoea, feeling sick, being sick, constipation stomach pain, wind	;
Paracetamol	Paracetamol is a common painkiller used to treat aches and pain. It can also be used to reduce a high temperature.

It's available combined with other painkillers and anti-sickness medicines. It's also an ingredient in a wide range of cold and flu remedies.	very safe, rarely causes side effects	;
Paroxetine	Paroxetine is a type of antidepressant known as an SSRI (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor).

It's often used to treat depression and also sometimes for obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), panic attacks, anxiety or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

Paroxetine helps many people recover from depression, and it has fewer unwanted effects than older antidepressants.	Feeling sick (nausea), headaches, unable to sleep, diarrhoea, feeling tired or weak	;
Pepto-Bismol	Bismuth subsalicylate is the main ingredient in Pepto-Bismol. This medicine is used for heartburn and acid reflux, indigestion, diarrhoea and feeling sick (nausea).

It works by protecting your stomach and the lower part of your food pipe from stomach acid. It is also a mild antacid, which helps reduce excess stomach acid and eases any discomfort.	Unlikely to get any side effects	;
Perindopril	Perindopril is a medicine used to treat high blood pressure and heart failure. It's also prescribed after a heart attack.

Perindopril helps to reduce the risk of future strokes and heart attacks. It also improves your survival if you're taking it following a heart attack or heart surgery.	Dry, tickly cough that does not go away, feeling dizzy, or lightheaded, headaches, being sick, mild rash, blurred vision	;
Phenoxymethylpenicillin	Phenoxymethylpenicillin is a type of penicillin.

It's an antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections, including ear, chest, throat and skin infections.

It can also be used to prevent infections if you have sickle cell disease, or if you have had chorea (a movement disorder), rheumatic fever, or your spleen removed.	Feeling sick, being sick, stomach pain	;
Phenytoin	Phenytoin is a medicine used to treat epilepsy.

It can also be used to treat trigeminal neuralgia, a type of nerve pain that affects your face.	headaches, feeling drowsy, sleepy, dizzy, feeling nervous, unsteady, shaky, being or feeling sick, constipation, sore or swollen gums, mild skin rash	;
Pioglitazone	Pioglitazone is a medicine used to treat type 2 diabetes.

Type 2 diabetes is an illness where the body doesn't make enough insulin, or the insulin that it makes doesn't work properly. This can cause high blood sugar levels (hyperglycaemia).

Pioglitazone helps to control your blood sugar levels by helping your body make better use of the insulin it produces.	Sinus, throat or chest infections, problems with your eyes, might effect your eyesight, putting on weight, pins and needles (numb fingers or toes)	;
Pravastatin	Pravastatin belongs to a group of medicines called statins.

It's used to lower cholesterol if you've been diagnosed with high blood cholesterol. It's also taken to prevent heart disease, including heart attacks and strokes.	Very safe medicine, unlikely to get side effects	;
Prednisolone	Prednisolone is a type of medicine known as a corticosteroid or steroid. Corticosteroids are not the same as anabolic steroids.

Prednisolone is used to treat a wide range of health problems including allergies, blood disorders, skin diseases, infections, certain cancers and to prevent organ rejection after a transplant.

It helps by reducing inflammation. It also damps down your immune system, which can help in autoimmune illnesses like rheumatoid arthritis, where your immune system mistakenly attacks its own tissues.	Weight gain, indigestion, sleep problems, restlessness, sweating a lot	;
Pregabalin	Pregabalin is used to treat epilepsy and anxiety.

It is also taken to treat nerve pain. Nerve pain can be caused by different illnesses including diabetes and shingles, or an injury.

Pregabalin works in different ways:
-in epilepsy it stops seizures by reducing the abnormal electrical activity in the brain
-with nerve pain it blocks pain by interfering with pain messages travelling through the brain and down the spine
-in anxiety it stops your brain from releasing the chemicals that make you feel anxious	Headaches, feeling sleepy, tired, dizzy, diarrhoea, mood changes, feeling sick, swollen hands, arms, legs and feet, blurred vision, difficulty getting an erection (for men), weight gain, memory problems	;
Prochlorperazine	Prochlorperazine is an anti-sickness medicine. It can help stop you feeling or being sick (nausea or vomiting).

You can take prochlorperazine to treat:

-morning sickness
-feelings of dizziness (vertigo)
-travel sickness
-feelings of sickness due to migraines
-sickness caused by general anaesthetics after surgery, cancer treatment or taking other medicines
-problems with balance such as Ménière's disease (Ménière's disease is a condition of the inner ear that causes sudden attacks of feeling like the room is spinning, ringing, and hearing loss)
-Prochlorperazine may occasionally be used to treat some forms of anxiety.	Feeling sleepy, drowsy, blurred vision, dry mouth, headaches, stuffy nose	;
Promethazine	Promethazine is an antihistamine medicine that relieves the symptoms of allergies.

It's known as a drowsy (sedating) antihistamine. It's more likely to make you feel sleepy than other antihistamines.

It's used for:
-short-term sleep problems (insomnia) - including when a cough or cold, or itching, is keeping you awake at night
-allergies, including hay fever and hives (urticaria)
-feeling and being sick (vomiting) - due to morning sickness, travel sickness or vertigo
-cough and cold symptoms, such as coughing and a runny nose

You can buy promethazine from pharmacies, where it's often sold as Avomine, Phenergan or Sominex. Promethazine is also available on prescription.	Feeling tired during the day, nightmares, feeling dizzy, unsteady on your feet, difficulty concentrating, headaches	;
Propranolol	Propranolol belongs to a group of medicines called beta blockers. It's used to treat heart problems, help with anxiety and prevent migraines.

If you have a heart problem, you can take propranolol to
-treat high blood pressure
-treat illnesses that cause an irregular heartbeat, like atrial fibrillation
-prevent future heart disease, heart attacks and strokes
-prevent chest pain caused by angina

Propranolol can help reduce your symptoms if you have too much thyroid hormone in your body (thyrotoxicosis). You'll usually take it together with medicines to treat an overactive thyroid.	Feeling tired, dizzy, light headed, cold fingers or toes, difficulty sleeping or nightmares, feeling sick (nausea)	;
Pseudoephedrine	Pseudoephedrine is a decongestant that relieves a stuffy or blocked nose (nasal congestion).

Nasal congestion is caused when blood vessels in the cavities in your nose (sinuses) become swollen.
This can happen when you have:
-a cold
-the flu
-allergies such as hay fever
-a sinus infection (sinusitis)

You can buy pseudoephedrine from pharmacies and supermarkets. It comes as tablets and a liquid that you swallow.	Feeling or being sick, dry mouth, feeling restless, nervous or shaky, difficulty sleeping	;
Rabeprazole	Rabeprazole reduces the amount of acid your stomach makes.

It's used for heartburn, acid reflux and gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) - GORD is when you keep getting acid reflux.

Rabeprazole is also taken to prevent and treat stomach ulcers. Sometimes, rabeprazole is taken for a rare illness caused by a tumour in the pancreas or gut called Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.	Headaches, diarrhoea, being sick (vomiting), feeling sick, constipation, stomach pain or wind	;
Ramipril	Ramipril is a medicine widely used to treat high blood pressure and heart failure. It's also prescribed after a heart attack.

Ramipril helps prevent future strokes, heart attacks and kidney problems. It also improves your survival if you're taking it for heart failure or after a heart attack.	Dry, tickly cough that does not go away, feeling dizzy, lightheaded, headaches, diarrhoea, being sick (vomiting), a mild skin rash, blurred vision	;
Ranitidine	Ranitidine reduces the amount of acid your stomach makes.

It's used for indigestion and heartburn and acid reflux. It is also used for gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) - this is when you keep getting acid reflux. Ranitidine is also taken to prevent and treat stomach ulcers.

Sometimes, ranitidine is taken for a rare illness caused by a tumour in the pancreas or gut called Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.	Most people don’t have any side effects, but 1 in a 1000 people do get: stomach pains, constipation, feeling sick	;
Risedronate	Risedronate (risedronate sodium) is a type of medicine called a bisphosphonate. It helps your bones stay as strong as possible.

It can help if you have or are at risk of getting a health problem called osteoporosis. This is where your bones get weaker and more likely to break.

Osteoporosis can happen for many reasons, but you're more likely to get it if you're a woman who has been through the menopause or if you take steroids, such as prednisolone, for a long time. Some types of cancer treatment can also increase your risk of getting osteoporosis.

Risedronate can also help people who have Paget's disease of bone. This weakens your bones and can bend them out of shape.	Constipation, diarrhoea, indigestion, bloating, stomach pain, wind, feeling sick (nausea), headaches, mind muscle, bone or joint pain.	;
Rivaroxaban	Rivaroxaban is a type of medicine known as an anticoagulant, or blood thinner.

It makes your blood flow through your veins more easily. This means your blood will be less likely to make a dangerous blood clot.

People who are more at risk of developing a blood clot include those who have:
-an abnormal heartbeat (atrial fibrillation)
-recently had surgery to replace a -hip or knee joint
-unstable angina
-coronary heart disease
-peripheral artery disease
It's also used to treat people who have had a health problem caused by a blood clot, such as:
-a stroke
-a heart attack
-a blood clot in the leg (deep vein thrombosis, or DVT)
-a blood clot in the lungs (pulmonary embolism)	Tiredness, lack of energy, shortness of breath, noticeable heartbeats, pale skin, feeling dizzy, mild rash, feeling or being sick	;
Rosuvastatin	Rosuvastatin belongs to a group of medicines called statins.

It's used to lower cholesterol if you have been diagnosed with high cholesterol.

It's also taken to prevent heart and blood vessel disease, heart attacks and strokes.

Your doctor may also prescribe rosuvastatin if you have diabetes, kidney disease, or a family history of rheumatoid arthritis or heart disease.	Feeling sick, headaches, stomach pain, feeling weak, dizzy, constipation, protein in your pee	;
Salbutamol inhaler	Salbutamol is used to relieve symptoms of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) such as coughing, wheezing and feeling breathless. It works by relaxing the muscles of the airways into the lungs, which makes it easier to breathe.

Salbutamol comes in an inhaler (puffer). Salbutamol inhalers are usually blue.

Salbutamol is sometimes given as tablets, capsules or syrup for people who cannot use an inhaler very well.

It can also be given using a nebuliser, but this is usually only if you have severe asthma or COPD. A nebuliser is a machine that helps you breathe in your medicine as a mist, using a mask or a mouthpiece. You can use a nebuliser in hospital or you may be given one to manage your condition at home.	Feeling shaky, faster heartbeat for a short while, headaches, muscle cramps	;
Saxagliptin	Saxagliptin is a medicine used to treat type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is an illness where the body does not make enough insulin, or the insulin that it makes does not work properly.

This can cause high blood sugar levels (hyperglycaemia).

Saxagliptin is prescribed for people who have high blood sugar even though they have a sensible diet and exercise regularly.	Feeling dizzy, weak, headaches, diarrhoea, stomach pains, feeling or being sick, urinary tract infections, cold like symptoms, mild rash	;
Senna	Senna is a natural laxative made from the leaves and fruit of the senna plant. It's used to treat constipation (difficulty pooing).

Senna comes as tablets and as a liquid that you swallow (syrup).

It's available on prescription and to buy from pharmacies. Small packs are available to buy from supermarkets (up to 20 standard strength tablets, 10 maximum strength tablets or 100ml of syrup).

It's also combined with other ingredients in constipation remedies such as Manevac and Senokot Dual Relief tablets.	Stomach cramps, diarrhoea, constipation	;
Sertraline	Sertraline is a type of antidepressant known as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI).

It's often used to treat depression, and also sometimes panic attacks, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

Sertraline helps many people recover from depression, and has fewer unwanted side effects than older antidepressants.	Feeling sick, headaches, being unable to sleep, feeling sleepy, diarrhoea, dry mouth, dizziness, feeling tired, weak	;
Sildenafil (Viagra)	Sildenafil is a medicine used to treat erectile dysfunction. It increases blood flow to the penis to help men get an erection. At least two-thirds of men have improved erections after taking it.

Sildenafil is also sometimes used to treat pulmonary hypertension (high blood pressure in the blood vessels that supply the lungs).	Headaches, feeling sick, hot flushes, including facial flushing, indigestion, a colour tinge to your vision, or blurred vision, stuffy nose, dizziness	;
Simeticone	Simeticone or (simethicone) is a type of medicine called an antiflatulent. It is used to treat wind (flatulence).

It is a mixture of silica gel and dimeticone (or dimethicone, a type of silicone) and is known as "activated dimeticone".

It can help with trapped wind and bloating as well as colic in babies. People with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) sometimes take simeticone to ease their symptoms.	Very safe medicine, not know to cause side effects	;
Simvastatin	Simvastatin belongs to a group of medicines called statins.

It's used to lower cholesterol if you've been diagnosed with high blood cholesterol. It's also taken to prevent heart disease, including heart attacks and strokes.

Your doctor may prescribe simvastatin if you have a family history of heart disease, or a long-term health condition such as rheumatoid arthritis, or type 1 or type 2 diabetes.	Very safe medicine, not know to cause side effects	;
Sitagliptin	Sitagliptin is a medicine used to treat type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is an illness where the body does not make enough insulin, or the insulin that it makes does not work properly.

This can cause high blood sugar levels (hyperglycaemia).

Sitagliptin is prescribed for people who still have high blood sugar, even though they have a sensible diet and exercise regularly.	headaches	;
Sodium valproate	Sodium valproate is used to treat epilepsy and bipolar disorder.

It's occasionally used to prevent migraine headaches.	Stomach pain, feeling or being sick, diarrhoea, dry or sore mouth, swollen gums, shakes (tremors), unusual eye movements, feeling tired, sleepy, headache, weight gain, thinning hair, changes to the colour or texture of your hair, irregular or delayed periods	;
Sotalol	Sotalol belongs to a group of medicines called beta blockers.

It is used to treat atrial fibrillation and other conditions that cause an irregular heartbeat.	Headaches, feeling tired, dizzy, or weak, cold hands, feet, feeling or being sick, diarrhoea	;
Sumatriptan	Sumatriptan is a medicine to treat migraines and cluster headaches. It does not prevent these conditions.

It belongs to a group of medicines called triptans, or serotonin (5-HT1) agonists.

You take sumatriptan once a migraine or cluster headache has started. It is not a painkiller but you can use this medicine if painkillers or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have not worked.	Feeling, being sick, feeling dizzy, cold or hot, face flushes. With nasal spray: irritation on burning in your nose, throat, nosebleeds, bad taste in mouth. With injection: bruising or swelling where you gave yourself the injection, bleeding.	;
Tadalafil	Tadalafil is a medicine used to treat erection problems (erectile dysfunction) and symptoms of an enlarged prostate (benign prostate enlargement).

It's also sometimes used to treat pulmonary hypertension (high blood pressure in the blood vessels that supply the lungs).	Headaches, feeling sick, red or flushed face, indigestion, stuffy nose, muscle aches	;
tamsulosin	Tamsulosin belongs to a group of medicines called alpha-blockers. It's used to treat men with symptoms of an enlarged prostate (benign prostate enlargement).

It's also occasionally taken to treat kidney stones.	Feeling dizzy, problems when men ejaculate such as little or no semen	;
Temazepam	Temazepam belongs to a group of medicines called benzodiazepines.

It's used to treat sleeping problems (insomnia).

It can also be taken to help you relax before an operation or other medical or dental treatments. This is known as a "pre-med".	Disturbed sleep, feeling drowsy, tired, less alert, or hangover, feeling lightheaded, unsteady, dizzy, a dry mouth	;
Terbinafine	Terbinafine is an antifungal medicine. It is used to treat skin infections caused by a fungus (yeast), including:
-athlete's foot
-fungal nail infections
-ringworm
-jock itch (sometimes called dhobie itch, an infection in the groin area)
-pityriasis versicolor (this causes small patches of scaly and discoloured skin, often on your back, chest, upper arms, neck and tummy)

Terbinafine comes as a cream, gel or spray for treating athlete's foot, ringworm, jock itch and pityriasis versicolor. There is also a liquid (solution) for athlete's foot. You can buy these from a pharmacy or supermarket.

It also comes as tablets for treating fungal nail infections and other fungal infections. Your doctor may recommend tablets if they think creams, gels, sprays or solution are not likely to work.	Peeling, itchy skin, rash, headache, diarrhoea, feeling or being sick, smaller appetite, stomach ache, indigestion, muscle or joint pain.	;
Thiamine	Thiamine, also known as thiamin or vitamin B1, is one the of B vitamins.

Thiamine helps to turn food into energy to keep the nervous system healthy. Your body is not able to make thiamine for itself. However, you can usually get all you need from your food.

Man-made thiamine can be used to treat or prevent vitamin B1 deficiency (this is when you do not have enough of this vitamin in your body).

It is sometimes also used to treat to children with rare conditions like maple syrup urine disease and congenital lactic acidosis. It will be prescribed to them by a specialist doctor.	Feeling sick, diarrhoea, stomach ache	;
Ticagrelor	Ticagrelor is an antiplatelet medicine, or blood thinner. It makes your blood flow through your veins more easily. This means your blood will be less likely to make a dangerous blood clot.

Taking ticagrelor can help prevent blood clots if you have an increased risk of having them.
Your risk is higher if you have:
-unstable angina
-had a heart attack	Bleeding more easily, unexpected shortness of breath while resting, pain and swelling in your joints, headaches, dizziness, felling sick, diarrhoea, constipation, mild rash.	;
Topiramate	Topiramate is a medicine used to treat epilepsy. These are also called anti-epileptic medicines.

It can also be taken to prevent migraine.	Feeling sick, feeling sleepy, dizzy, or tired, diarrhoea, feeling depressed, loss of appetite or wright loss	;
Tramadol	Tramadol is a strong painkiller. It's used to treat moderate to severe pain, for example after an operation or a serious injury.

It's also used to treat long-standing pain when weaker painkillers no longer work.	Very common Feeling sick, dizzy, common headaches, feeling sleepy, tired, dizzy, feeling or being sick, constipation, dry mouth, sweating, low energy	;
Tranexamic acid	Tranexamic acid (sometimes shortened to txa) is a medicine that controls bleeding. It helps your blood to clot and is used for nosebleeds and heavy periods.

If you're having a tooth taken out, using tranexamic acid mouthwash can help stop bleeding.

Tranexamic acid can also help if you have a condition that causes swelling under the skin (hereditary angioedema).

If you have any condition that causes you to bleed more than usual, you may need to take tranexamic acid for a few days before having surgery or dental surgery.	Feeling sick (nausea), diarrhoea, itchy red skin	;
Trazodone	Trazodone is an antidepressant medicine that works to balance chemicals in the brain.

It's used to treat depression, anxiety, or a combination of depression and anxiety.

It can help if you're having problems like low mood, poor sleep and poor concentration.	Feeling sleepy or tired, headaches, feeling sick, constipation, dry mouth	;
Trimethoprim	Trimethoprim is an antibiotic.

It's used to treat urinary tract infections (UTIs), such as cystitis.

Occasionally, trimethoprim is used to treat other types of infections, such as chest infections and acne.	Feeling sick, diarrhoea, headaches	;
Valproic acid	Valproic acid is used to treat bipolar disorder.

It's occasionally used to prevent migraine headaches and can also be used to treat epilepsy.	Stomach pain, feeling, being sick, diarrhoea, dry mouth, swollen gums, shakes (tremors), unusual eye movement, feeling or being sick, headaches, weight gain, thinning hair, or changes to color and texture of hair irregular or delayed periods	;
Valsartan	Valsartan is a medicine widely used to treat high blood pressure and heart failure. It's also sometimes prescribed after a heart attack.	Feeling dizzy, headaches, feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting) or diarrhoea, pain in your joints, or muscles	;
Champix	Champix (also called varenicline) is a medicine that can help you stop smoking.

It reduces the cravings for nicotine and helps with the withdrawal symptoms you get when you stop smoking. These can include an urge to smoke again, feeling depressed or irritable, and difficulty sleeping.	Sore or swollen (inflamed) nose and throat, feeling sick, headaches, difficulty sleeping, feeling dizzy, bad taste in your mouth	;
Venlafaxine	Venlafaxine is a type of antidepressant often used to treat depression. It is also sometimes used to treat anxiety and panic attacks.

Venlafaxine helps many people recover from depression, and has fewer unwanted side effects than older antidepressants.	Feeling sick, headaches, sweating, dry mouth, trouble sleeping, feeling dizzy or sleepy, constipation	;
Warfarin	Warfarin is a type of medicine known as an anticoagulant, or blood thinner.

It makes your blood flow through your veins more easily. This means your blood will be less likely to make a dangerous blood clot.

Warfarin is used to treat people who have had a previous blood clot, such as:
-a blood clot in the leg (deep vein thrombosis, or DVT)
-a blood clot in the lungs (pulmonary embolism)
It's also used to prevent blood clots if you're at high risk of having them in the future.	Mild rash, hair loss, yellowing of your skin, dark urine, painful swollen patches, servere headaches, fits (seizures), changes to your eyesight, numbness or tingling in your arms and legs, feeling very tired, weak or sick	;
Zolpidem	Zolpidem is a sleeping pill.

It's used to treat insomnia (when you might have trouble getting to sleep and staying asleep). It helps you fall asleep more quickly and makes you less likely to wake up during the night.	Bitter or metallic taste in your mouth or dry mouth	;
Zopiclone	Zopiclone is a type of sleeping pill that can be taken to treat bad bouts of insomnia.

It helps you fall asleep more quickly, and also helps stop you waking up during the night.

Zopiclone comes as tablets. It also comes as a liquid for people who find it hard to swallow tablets, but this has to be ordered specially by your doctor.	Bitter or metallic taste in your mouth, dry mouth, feeling sleepy or tired	;

